# LLC Roster Automation Application Description

For one of my projects during my Graduate Assistantship with Residence Life, I had to automate the process of updating Penn State's 25 Living Learning Communities (LLCs) student rosters. The challenge was that each roster needed to be updated weekly with new students joining LLCs, changes in student leadership roles, and removals, all while ensuring accuracy and consistency across 25 Penn State Residence Halls. Previously, this task took approximately 3 hours when done manually by Residence Life Cordinators due to the need of repeatedly filtering the master spreadsheet by LLC, deleting identifying student information, copying the relevant data into new Excel workbooks, renaming and saving each file individually, and double-checking for accuracy.  To address this challenge, I created a Microsoft Excel VBA macro (.bas file in this GitHub) that automates the data manipulation process. This macro processes through a master CSV file, that contains over 16,000 rows of Penn State's student data, which identifies and organizes both first-year students and upper-class students across various LLCs. This macro then automatically saves the 25 separate Excel workbooks in a folder on a user's desktop.

With this macro, the same task now takes just 10 minutes which has a 94.4% decrease in processing time for Penn State Residence Life faculty members. This innovation not only saved time but also improved collaboration across faculty associates and student leaders associated with the Penn State Residence Life LLCs.

Penn State Residence Life faculty can download the GuideToRunMacro.pdf from this GitHub repository to learn how to run the macro step-by-step.

For any questions, comments, and/or suggestions, please do not hesitate to email me at amp7496@psu.edu.
